Bandnummar / Tape number: ET PCS 1913
Corrected: No
Stað / Location: England
Upptøkudagur / Date Recorded: 
Talari / Speaker: Ellen Terry
Føðingardagur / Birthdate: 27.02.1847
Føðingarstað / Birthplace: 
Spyrjari / Interviewer: Pamela Coleman Smith
Útskrivari / Transcriber: 
Útskrivingartíð / Date Transcribed: 

It has been said that the 3ussian ballet makes a vivid and brutal appeal to the senses, and certainly there is some truth in this as regards the baHets of which the artist Bakst is the guiding spirit.
The old saying that you cennot see the wood for the traes may be borrOwed to express a criticism. You cannot see color for the colors in some 8akst ballets. Yet even Bakst sometimes helgs to aid that impression of a visitation divine which Niiinsky in his own person produces.
You will see that Niss Pamela Co!man Smith has given what some may think a dispro portionate amount of space to her studies of "Les Sylphides,""Le Carnaval," and "Le Spectre de la Rose." o
I think she was, perhaps unconsciously, more strongly attracted by these three dance poems (Lor dance poems they should be called rather than ballets) because of their greafer wealth in the immaferial.

Some of the Russian ballets take a material story and treat it in terms of the dance. But what story is there in "Les Sylphides"? 
Even the programme, seld0m at a loss for a synopsis, has never tried to teH us what it is all about. We hear preludes and waffzes, 
nocturnes and mazurkas by Chopin, and hear them orchestrafed audaciously, but for the mo3t part successfully, by distinguished Russian composers.
We remember that when we heard these lovely Chogin pieces on the pieno, interpreted by a Paberewski or a Pachmenn, we had our mentel dreams; we saw things, but not with our when the curtain rose on "Les Sy!phides" we were asked to make our imagination abdicate its rights, to put away the films of that little individual cimemalopraph which we had made with d'osed eyes. 
The demand mayhaveseemed impertinent to those who loye the interIOr visions given by musical sounds better than the most beautiful spectacle that the theatre has ever presented. But "Ees 5ylphides" had not progressed far before we ceased to Les Sy!phides be worried by the antagonism between dreams and stage pictures.
he grace of those immaferial white figures, victorian just so far as Chopin is Victorian, became one vith the grace ot the music.