Bandnummar / Tape number: ET PCS 1913
Corrected: No
Stað / Location: England
Upptøkudagur / Date Recorded: 
Talari / Speaker: Ellen Terry
Føðingardagur / Birthdate: 27.02.1847
Føðingarstað / Birthplace: 
Spyrjari / Interviewer: Pamela Coleman Smith
Útskrivari / Transcriber: 
Útskrivingartíð / Date Transcribed: 

It has been said that the Russian ballet makes a vivid and brutal appeal to the senses, and certainly there is some truth in this as regards the ballets of which the artist Bakst is the guiding spirit.
The old saying that you cannot see the wood for the trees may be borrowed to express a criticism.
You cannot see color for the colors in some Bakst ballets. Yet even Bakst sometimes helps to aid that impression of a visitation divine which Nijinsky in his own person produces.
You will see that Miss Pamela Colman Smith has given what some may think a disproportionate amount of space to her studies of "Les Sylphides," "Le Carnaval," and "Le Spectre de la Rose."
I think she was, perhaps unconsciously, more strongly attracted by these three dance poems (for dance poems they should be called rather than ballets) because of their greater wealth in the immaterial.

Some of the Russian ballets take a material story and treat it in terms of the dance.
But what story is there in "Les Sylphides"?
Even the programme, seldom at a loss for a synopsis, has never tried to tell us what it is all about.
We hear preludes and waltzes, nocturnes and mazurkas by Chopin, and hear them orchestrated audaciously, but for the most part successfully, by distinguished Russian composers.
We remember that when we heard these lovely Chopin pieces on the piano, interpreted by a Paderewski or a Pachmann, we had our mental dreams; we saw things, but not with our eyes.
When the curtain rose on "Les Sylphides" we were asked to make our imagination abdicate its rights, to put away the films of that little individual cinematograph which we had made with closed eyes.
The demand may have seemed impertinent to those who love the interior visions given by musical sounds better than the most beautiful spectacle that the theatre has ever presented.
But "Les Sylphides" had not progressed far before we ceased to be worried by the antagonism between dreams and stage pictures.
The grace of those immaterial white figures, Victorian just so far as Chopin is Victorian, became one with the grace of the music. 